This file contains extra info about the AP that may or may not be helpful

Includes some design reasoning and extra things, and may be updated over time

Total Item Count: 270

Item Count Breakdown:
- Characters: 38 * 2 = 76
- Character Wishes (guaranteed check spots): 38
- Street Brawl: 1 * 2 = 2
- Total Tiered Items: 154
  - Tier I Items: 22
  - Tier II Items: 42
  - Tier III Items: 46
  - Tier IV Items: 44

Total Location Count: 303
Total Location Count - Guaranteed Checks: 265
Filler Count: 33 (35 if Street Brawl isn't randomized)

Explanation for ranking of turning off items (in order):
- Tier IV: Most expensive set but matching the same number of items as II and III. They're much harder to obtain,
  the randomization locks out late game items, and it has a ridiculous number of active items (which you usually
  max 4 per game if you focus on them, but it still isn't enough to keep up with). Even in Street Brawl, you
  obtain much less of them than Tier II and III items. I think saving the headache here, especially since it only
  affects late game commitments, is the best first option.
- Tier II: A very good item set, but that means if it is randomized, you lose all early game viability. If you keep
  the items, you'll have options you can fall back on in early-mid game that can keep up with games that you don't
  have many good choices left, and more consistent games overall early in the AP. If you find that you want to play
  bots a whole lot more than normal games until you get more items, consider turning this set off.
- Tier III: I see this as the lesser of the 3 evils in the big item sets. It's not particularly early, but not
  particularly late either. The benefits of keeping them are also the same as the others, but in a mediocre way.
  For that, I think it's the ideal item set to randomize for the challenge.
- Tier I: This set should rank 5th/4, and I think you should always randomize this. If you keep these items, your
  early game will be very straightforward, but also very weak until you get other, higher ranked items. I think Tier
  II is a better balanced version of Tier I in that regard, as it provides more consistency and a bit more challenge
  in making your early games work. Still though, it's the smallest item set, and the items are really easy to pick
  up because of their price (opposite in Street Brawl, you can only pick up 1-2), so I don't think it's valid to ever
  not randomize them unless you're turning off all item randomization entirely.

Something that felt like it didn't fit in the rules file:
I recommend keeping a scratch paper file or something to keep track of your Stat Totals.

Also let me know if they need to be nerfed or changed if people keep getting locked behind the later increments.
 - I think I have ideas for balancing generation for the later increments into later spheres using regions?
   Not sure if it would work, though, and the checks aren't usually that bad that I need to commit to trying to do
   something like that
I will need ideas for alternatives if removing them, as there are 40, keeping the location count high enough for the
AP to work (by 5-7 if they were all removed).


For character tracking: what bots are currently not in the game (or I just haven't seen, may be wrong)
- Doorman, Drifter, Graves, Lash, Mina, Mirage, Pocket, Sinclair, Venator, Victor

I figured out that they shadow update the bot roster (the last was with the March 6, 2026 Gameplay Update with no
mentions of it), so let me know if this list needs changing.


How the characters are sorted into categories: I wanted this to be in line with the
theming and lore of the game. Some of these are highly debatable, but that's why the
explanation is here. Characters are sorted alphabetically.

Power - The Selfish few who prioritize themselves and their goals above
all else, aiming to take a seat above or with authority, or aiming to
simply gain power to achieve their own goals.

- Apollo, Graves, Mina, Paradox, Seven, Vindicta, Yamato

Resolution - Those whose lives led them to a problem that must be solved,
but their lives (or deaths) shall never be the same.

- Grey Talon, Holliday, Lady Geist, Pocket, Sinclair

Normalcy - Those who wish to return to what once was, or for those who
want their own inner peace fulfilled in a different kind of life.

- Calico, Dynamo, Mo & Krill, Rem, Shiv, Silver, Vyper, Wraith

Answers - Those whose paths were shrouded in mystery from the beginning,
questions must be answered before the path can be further tread.

- Abrams, Kelvin, Paige, Victor

True Good - The Selfless who prioritize others before themselves, no matter
how their help may actually affect the world around them.

- Bebop, Celeste, Infernus, Ivy, Mirage, Viscous, Warden

Mystery - Those whose wish isn't clear, or has yet to be formed. However,
the Patrons may be able to convince them to join their cause...

- Billy, Doorman, Drifter, Haze, Lash, McGinnis, Venator
